https://www.biography.com/business-figure/steve-jobs
 History & Culture Crime & Scandal Terms of Use History & Culture Crime & Scandal Subscribe to Newsletter History & Culture Crime & Scandal Photo: David Paul Morris/Bloomberg via Getty Images February 24, 1955 October 5, 2011 Did You Know? Growing up, Steve Jobs had a hard time with formal schooling (due to boredom) and often had to be bribed to do his work. Did You Know? One of Jobs' first jobs was with Atari as a video game designer. Did You Know? If Jobs had not sold his Apple shares in 1985, when he left the company he founded for over a decade, his net worth would have been a staggering $36 billion. Homestead High School, Reed College Place of Birth San Francisco, California Place of Death Palo Alto, California Steven Paul Jobs Who Was Steve Jobs? Cite This Page 1 of 14 “Do you want to spend the rest of your life selling sugared water or do you want a chance to change the world? [Jobs inviting an executive to join Apple]” “It's better to be a pirate than join the Navy.” “I like to believe there's an afterlife. I like to believe the accumulated wisdom doesn't just disappear when you die, but somehow it endures. But maybe it's just like an on/off switch and click—and you're gone. Maybe that's why I didn't like putting on/off switches on Apple devices.” “In my perspective...science and computer science is a liberal art, it's something everyone should know how to use, at least, and harness in their life.” “It's in Apple's DNA that technology alone is not enough. It's technology married with liberal arts, married with the humanities that yields us the result that makes our hearts sing.” “There's an old Wayne Gretzky quote that I love—'I skate to where the puck is going to be, not where it has been'—and we've always tried to do that at Apple.” “You can't just ask customers what they want and then try to give that to them. By the time you get it built, they'll want something new.” “I think humans are basically tool builders, and the computer is the most remarkable tool we've ever built.” “You just make the best product you can, and you don't put it out until you feel it's right.” “Things don't have to change the world to be important.” “I would trade all of my technology for an afternoon with Socrates.” “If you want to live your life in a creative way, as an artist, you have to not look back too much. You have to be willing to take whatever you've done and whoever you were and throw them away.” “With iPod, listening to music will never be the same again.” “Being the richest man in the cemetery doesn't matter to me. ... Going to bed at night saying we've done something wonderful—that's what matters to me.” Steve Jobs  Aug 21, 2019 Apr 27, 2017 Steve Jobs co-founded Apple Computers with Steve Wozniak. Under Jobs' guidance, the company pioneered a series of revolutionary technologies, including the iPhone and iPad.  tml-version="2"  Who Was Steve Jobs? Steven Paul Jobs was an American inventor, designer and entrepreneur who was the co-founder, chief executive and chairman of Apple Computer. Apple's revolutionary products, which include the iPod, iPhone and iPad, are now seen as dictating the evolution of modern technology.  Born in 1955 to two University of Wisconsin graduate students who gave him up for adoption, Jobs was smart but directionless, dropping out of college and experimenting with different pursuits before co-founding Apple with   in 1976. Jobs left the company in 1985, launching Pixar Animation Studios, then returned to Apple more than a decade later. Jobs died in 2011 following a long battle with pancreatic cancer.  Steve Jobs’ Parents and Adoption Jobs was born to Joanne Schieble (later Joanne Simpson) and Abdulfattah "John" Jandali, two University of Wisconsin graduate students. The couple gave up their unnamed son for adoption.  Jobs’ father, Jandali, was a Syrian political science professor. His mother, Schieble, worked as a speech therapist. Shortly after Jobs was placed for adoption, his biological parents married and had another child, Mona Simpson. It was not until Jobs was 27 that he was able to uncover information on his biological parents. As an infant, Jobs was adopted by Clara and Paul Jobs and named Steven Paul Jobs. Clara worked as an accountant and Paul was a Coast Guard veteran and machinist.  Jobs was born on February 24, 1955, in San Francisco, California. He lived with his adoptive family in Mountain View, California, within the area that would later become known as Silicon Valley.  As a boy, Jobs and his father worked on electronics in the family garage. Paul showed his son how to take apart and reconstruct electronics, a hobby that instilled confidence, tenacity and mechanical prowess in young Jobs. Steve Jobs’ Education and College While Jobs was always an intelligent and innovative thinker, his youth was riddled with frustrations over formal schooling. Jobs was a prankster in elementary school due to boredom, and his fourth-grade teacher needed to bribe him to study. Jobs tested so well, however, that administrators wanted to skip him ahead to high school — a proposal that his parents declined. After high school, Jobs enrolled at Reed College in Portland, Oregon. Lacking direction, he dropped out of college after six months and spent the next 18 months dropping in on creative classes at the school. Jobs later recounted how one course in calligraphy developed his love of typography. In 1974, Jobs took a position as a video game designer with Atari. Several months later he left the company to find spiritual enlightenment in India, traveling further and experimenting with psychedelic drugs. Steve Wozniak and Steve Jobs Back when Jobs was enrolled at Homestead High School, he was introduced to his future partner and co-founder of Apple Computer, Wozniak, who was attending the University of California, Berkeley. In a 2007 interview with  , Wozniak spoke about why he and Jobs clicked so well: "We both loved electronics and the way we used to hook up digital chips," Wozniak said. "Very few people, especially back then, had any idea what chips were, how they worked and what they could do. I had designed many computers, so I was way ahead of him in electronics and computer design, but we still had common interests. We both had pretty much sort of an independent attitude about things in the world.” Founding and Leaving Apple Computer In 1976, when Jobs was just 21, he and Wozniak started Apple Computer in the Jobs’ family garage. They funded their entrepreneurial venture by Jobs selling his Volkswagen bus and Wozniak selling his beloved scientific calculator. Jobs and Wozniak are credited with revolutionizing the computer industry with Apple by democratizing the technology and making machines smaller, cheaper, intuitive and accessible to everyday consumers. Wozniak conceived of a series of user-friendly personal computers, and — with Jobs in charge of marketing — Apple initially marketed the computers for $666.66 each. The Apple I earned the corporation around $774,000. Three years after the release of Apple's second model, the Apple II, the company's sales increased by 700 percent to $139 million. In 1980, Apple Computer became a publicly-traded company, with a market value of $1.2 billion by the end of its very first day of trading. Jobs looked to marketing expert John Sculley of Pepsi-Cola to take over the role of CEO for Apple. The next several products from Apple suffered significant design flaws, however, resulting in recalls and consumer disappointment. IBM suddenly surpassed Apple in sales, and Apple had to compete with an IBM/PC-dominated business world. In 1984, Apple released the Macintosh, marketing the computer as a piece of a counterculture lifestyle: romantic, youthful, creative. But despite positive sales and performance superior to IBM's PCs, the Macintosh was still not IBM-compatible.  Sculley believed Jobs was hurting Apple, and the company's executives began to phase him out. Not actually having had an official title with the company he co-founded, Jobs was pushed into a more marginalized position and thus left Apple in 1985. After leaving Apple in 1985, Jobs began a new hardware and software enterprise called NeXT, Inc. The company floundered in its attempts to sell its specialized operating system to mainstream America, and Apple eventually bought the company in 1996 for $429 million.  In 1997, Jobs returned to his post as Apple's CEO. Just as Jobs instigated Apple's success in the 1970s, he is credited with revitalizing the company in the 1990s. With a new management team, altered stock options and a self-imposed annual salary of $1 a year, Jobs put Apple back on track. Jobs’ ingenious products (like the iMac), effective branding campaigns and stylish designs caught the attention of consumers once again.  In the ensuing years, Apple introduced such revolutionary products as the Macbook Air, iPod and iPhone, all of which dictated the evolution of technology. Almost immediately after Apple released a new product, competitors scrambled to produce comparable technologies. Apple's quarterly reports improved significantly in 2007: Stocks were worth $199.99 a share—a record-breaking number at that time — and the company boasted a staggering $1.58 billion profit, an $18 billion surplus in the bank and zero debt.  In 2008, Apple became the second-biggest music retailer in America — second only to Walmart, fueled by iTunes and iPod sales. Apple has also been ranked No. 1 on   magazine's list of "America's Most Admired Companies," as well as No. 1 among Fortune 500 companies for returns to shareholders. Steve Jobs and Pixar In 1986, Jobs purchased an animation company from  , which later became Pixar Animation Studios. Believing in Pixar's potential, Jobs initially invested $50 million of his own money in the company.  The studio went on to produce wildly popular movies such as   and  The Incredibles;  Pixar's films have collectively netted $4 billion. The studio merged with Walt Disney in 2006, making Jobs Disney's largest shareholder. In 2011,  estimated the majority of Jobs’ net worth at around $6.5 billion to $7 billion from his sale of Pixar to the Walt Disney Company in 2006. However if Jobs had not sold his Apple shares in 1985, when he left the company he founded and helmed for over a decade, his net worth would have been a staggering $36 billion. Steve Jobs’ Wife and Children Jobs and Laurene Powell married on March 18, 1991. The pair met in the early 1990s at Stanford business school, where Powell was an MBA student. They lived together in Palo Alto, California, with their three children: Reed, Erin, and Eve. Jobs also fathered a daughter, Lisa, with girlfriend Chrisann Brennan in 1978, when he was 23. He denied paternity of his daughter in court documents, claiming he was sterile.  Lisa Brennan Jobs later wrote  of her childhood and relationship with Jobs in her book  , published in 2018. In 1980, Lisa wrote, DNA tests revealed that she and Jobs were a match, and he was required to begin making paternity payments to her financially struggling mother. Jobs did not initiate a relationship with his daughter until she was 7 years old. When she was a teenager, Lisa came to live with her father.  DOWNLOAD BIOGRAPHY'S STEVE JOBS FACT CARD Steve Jobs’ Battle with Cancer In 2003, Jobs discovered that he had a neuroendocrine tumor, a rare but operable form of pancreatic cancer. Instead of immediately opting for surgery, Jobs chose to alter his pesco-vegetarian diet while weighing Eastern treatment options.  For nine months, Jobs postponed surgery, making Apple's board of directors nervous. Executives feared that shareholders would pull their stock if word got out that their CEO was ill. But in the end, Jobs' confidentiality took precedence over shareholder disclosure.  In 2004, Jobs had successful surgery to remove the pancreatic tumor. True to form, in subsequent years Jobs disclosed little about his health. Early in 2009, reports circulated about Jobs' weight loss, some predicting his health issues had returned, which included a liver transplant. Jobs responded to these concerns by stating he was dealing with a hormone imbalance. Days later, he went on a six-month leave of absence.  In an email message to employees, Jobs said his "health-related issues are more complex" than he thought, then named Tim Cook, Apple’s chief operating officer, as “responsible for Apple's day-today operations." After nearly a year out of the spotlight, Jobs delivered a keynote address at an invite-only Apple event on September 9, 2009. He continued to serve as master of ceremonies, which included the unveiling of the iPad, throughout much of 2010.  In January 2011, Jobs announced he was going on medical leave. In August, he resigned as CEO of Apple, handing the reins to Cook. Steve Jobs’ Death and Last Words Jobs died in Palo Alto on October 5, 2011, after battling pancreatic cancer for nearly a decade. He was 56 years old. In a eulogy for Jobs , sister Mona Simpson wrote that just before dying, Jobs looked for a long time at his sister, Patty, then his wife and children, then past them, and said his last words: “OH WOW. OH WOW. OH WOW.” We strive for accuracy and fairness. If you see something that doesn't look right,  Steve Jobs Biography The Biography.com website A&E Television Networks August 21, 2019 Original Published Date April 2, 2014 Subscribe to the Biography newsletters to receive stories about the people who shaped our world and the stories that shaped their lives. MORE STORIES FROM BIOGRAPHY Steve Wozniak is an American computer scientist best known as one of the founders of Apple and as the inventor of the Apple II computer. Steve McQueen was one of the most popular and successful film actors of the 1960s and 1970s. He starred in such features as 'The Great Escape,' 'Bullitt' and 'The Getaway.' Steve Chen is best known as the co-founder and chief technology officer of the video-sharing website YouTube. Google bought YouTube for $1.64 billion in stock. Steve Wynn has resigned as chairman and CEO of Wynn Resorts after decades of sexual misconduct allegations surfaced in a WSJ investigation. The Las Vegas casino mogul denies charges and blamed “an avalanche of negative publicity” for creating “a rush to judgement.” Actor Steve Carell has earned acclaim for his comedic work on TV series such as ‘The Daily Show with Jon Stewart’ and ‘The Office,’ and in films like ‘The 40 Year-Old Virgin’ and ‘Foxcatcher.’ Comedian, actor and writer Steve Martin found fame starring in such films as 'The Jerk,' 'All of Me,' 'Little Shop of Horrors' and 'Father of the Bride.' Steve Biko was an anti-apartheid activist who spearheaded the Black Consciousness Movement in South Africa. Steve Buscemi is a popular character actor, director and screenwriter. He's known for his role on the critically acclaimed series Boardwalk Empire. Steve Irwin was a famous Australian wildlife enthusiast who was at the helm of the popular 'Crocodile Hunter' series. Terms of Use © 2020 Biography and the Biography logo are registered trademarks of A&E Television Networks, LLC.  Template for the recommended content widget