https://sites.google.com/site/stevejobsbiography/recommended-articles
 Steve Jobs Biography Search this site Steve Jobs' very own family Life Changing experiences Steven Jobs spent his childhood in Silicon Valley.  He was the type of child who liked to stick to himself. He only did competitive swimming, and no team sports. He was interested in electronics and gadgets, because he would spend a lot of time in his neighbor's garage, who worked at Hewlett-Packard Company, (a computer company).  He attended Crittenden Middle School, but the area that the school is in is a poor area where kids were bullied. Steve was bullied at that school. It must have been too much for him because one day, he came home and told his adoptive parents that he wanted to transfer schools or he would never attend school again. He was 11 when he said this. The parents agreed and the family moved to another city, which was Los Altos, where he was able to attend Cupertino Junior High.  Later on he joined the Hewlett-Packard Explorer Club, where he saw his first computer at the age of 12.  He was impressed with the computer and knew he wanted to work with computers.  He started to go to school at Cupertino Junior High, but transferred to Homestead High School, located in Cupertino, California. It is at Homestead High School, that he took his first electronic class. In this electronic class, he made friends with Bill Fernandez. Bill also loved electronics.  In the early years of Steve Jobs'  education, he started attending after school lectures about computers at Hewlett-Packard Company in Paulo Alto. He loved computers that much. But later on, the Hewlett-Packard Company hired Steve.  When Steve graduated Homestead High School, in 1972,  he  went on to attend Reed College in Portland, Oregon. He never did graduate from Reed College in Portland, Oregon, because he dropped out the first semester. Here is a quote by Steve Jobs that says why he dropped out of college: "After six months, I couldn't see the value in it. I had no idea what I wanted to do with my life and no idea how college was going to help me figure it out. And here I was spending all of the money my parents had saved their entire life. So I decided to drop out and trust that it would all work out OK. It was pretty scary at the time, but looking back it was one of the best decisions I ever made. The minute I dropped out I could stop taking the required classes that didn't interest me, and begin dropping in on the ones that looked interesting." The class that interested him was a calligraphy class, because after he dropped out, he continued taking calligraphy classes at Reed College.  He stayed on the campus, and would sleep at different friends' rooms. He would also take  in bottles for money, (some campuses will give 5 cents for each bottle you turn in), to buy himself some food. After he dropped out, Steve met Steve Wozniak in a group called the Homebrew Computer Club. The Homebrew Computer club is a group for people who love electronics. In the group, they can exchange parts. Later on Steve Wozniak would co-found Apple Inc. with Steve.  When Steve joined the group, he was surprised by the small computer Steve Wozniak was trying to build. Steve was excited about  all the components of a computer.  Recent Site Activity